docs: Add reference to Deployment Strategy Guide (#9)
2060-io/organization: jenkins/deployment-strategy.md

# 🚀 2060.io Deployment Strategy – Detailed Guide

> This document describes the detailed procedure to deploy core components of the **2060.io** infrastructure. It covers both automated deployments using **Jenkins with Blue-Green strategy** and manual deployments via **Helm**. The goal is to standardize and clarify every step to ensure safe and reliable deployments.

Reviewer: I don't think this is specific to "core" components of 2060.io

---

## 📦 Pre-requisites

Before starting any deployment, ensure the following:

### 🔐 Access Requirements

> - Access to the GitHub repositories: [2060-core-deploy-dev](https://github.com/2060-io/2060-core-deploy-dev), [2060-core-deploy-prod](https://github.com/2060-io/2060-core-deploy-prod), and [2060-demos-deploy-dev](https://github.com/2060-io/2060-demos-deploy-dev)
> - Access to [**Jenkins**](https://jenkins.dev.2060.io) with permissions to execute deployment jobs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to the relevant GitHub deployment repositories (e.g. [2060-core-deploy-dev])
- Access to the appropriate **Jenkins** instance (e.g. https://jenkins.dev.2060.io) with permissions to execute deployment jobs
```

Since this is a guide for any deployment within 2060.io, I think we can avoid restricting it to current existing repos.

Author: Solved!

- Access to **Kubernetes cluster**
- DockerHub read/push credentials (as needed)

### 💻 Tools Installed

- `kubectl`
- `helm` v3+
- `git`

> - Valid `KUBECONFIG` file

Author: Solved!

- Jenkins UI access

---

## 🔄 Blue-Green Deployment via Jenkins

This strategy allows you to deploy a new version in parallel ("blue" or "green") and switch traffic only when the deployment is verified.

### 📘 Naming Convention

> All Helm releases **must be prefixed with `2060-`**, followed by the service name (which must match the folder name under `deployments/`) and the color suffix (either `-blue` or `-green`).

Reviewer: I'm curious about why Helm releases must be prefixed by 2060? It is just a legacy thing (previously we were sharing Kubernetes with other organizations)?

Example: `2060-webrtc-server-blue`

---

### 🔁 Deployment Workflow

> Before starting, ensure that a Jenkins pipeline is already configured for the service you intend to deploy. Each service must have a corresponding job in Jenkins to execute the deployment process.

Reviewer: Probably this **ensure** can refer to "Create a New Pipeline" section in the other document.

Author: Solved!

![Deployment Workflow Diagram](./docs/diagrams/deployment_workflow.png)

1. **Check the current live color**
   - Run `helm list -n <namespace>` or check Jenkins dashboard to see if `-blue` or `-green` is active

2. **Prepare changes**
   - Navigate to `deployments/<service-name>`
   - Update `Chart.yaml` with the new version and adjust `values.yaml` if needed

3. **Create a feature branch**

   ```bash
   git checkout -b feat/update-<service>-vX.Y.Z
   ```

4. **Commit your changes**

   ```bash
   git commit -am "feat: bump <service> to vX.Y.Z"
   ```

5. **Open a Pull Request to `main`**
   - Provide a meaningful title and description
   - Include release name and namespace for clarity

6. **After approval:**
   - GitHub Actions triggers Jenkins with the deployment parameters
   - Jenkins installs the new release with the opposite color (e.g., `green` if `blue` is active)

7. **Check Jenkins status**
   - Ensure the job completes successfully
   - Validate endpoint and logs for the new release

8. **Switch traffic**

>    - Update Ingress or service selectors to route traffic to the new release

Reviewer: How is this achieved?

Author: Solved!
